Hi there! In the previous video,
you learned how to check
permissions for a user.
In this video, we're going
to learn about
changing permissions.
When working as a
security analyst,
there may be many reasons to
change permissions for a user.
A user may have
changed departments
or been assigned to a
different work group.
A user might simply no
longer be working on
a project that requires
certain permissions.
These changes are necessary
in order to protect
system files from being
accidentally or deliberately
altered or deleted.
Let's explore a related command
that helps control this access.
In this video, we'll
learn about chmod.
chmod changes permissions
on files and directories.
The command chmod
stands for change mode.
There are two modes for
changing permissions,
but we'll focus on
symbolic. The best way to
learn about how chmod works
is through an example.
I know this has a
lot of details,
but we'll break this down.
Also, please keep in mind that,
like many Linux commands,
you don't have to memorize
the information and can
always find a reference.
With chmod, you need
to identify which
file or directory you want
to adjust permissions for.
This is the final argument,
in this case, a file
named: access.txt.
The first argument,
added directly after
the chmod command, indicates
how to change permissions.
Right now, this might
seem hard to interpret,
but soon we'll understand why
this is called symbolic mode.
Previously, we learned
about the three types
of owners: user,
group, and other.
To identify these with chmod,
we use u to represent the user,
g to represent the group,
and o to represent other.
In this particular example,
g indicates we will make
some changes to
group permissions,
and o to permissions for other.
These owner types are separated
by a comma in this argument.
But do we want to add or
take away permissions?
Well, for this, we use
mathematical operators.
So, the plus sign after g
means we want to add
permissions for group.
The minus sign after o
means we want to take
them away from other.
And the last question
is: what kind of changes?
We've already learned that r
represents read permissions,
w represents write permissions,
and x represents
execute permissions.
So in this case, the w indicates
that we're adding write
permissions to the group,
and r indicates
that we are taking
away read permissions
from other.
This is still very complex.
But now that we've
broken it down,
perhaps it doesn't seem quite
so much like a foreign language.
And remember, you don't have
to memorize this all.
Let's give this
new command a try.
We'll start out in the
logs sub-directory.
If we use the ls -l command,
it will output the
permissions for the file.
It shows the permissions
for the only file
in this directory: access.txt.
Previously, we learned how
to read these permissions.
The second through
fourth characters
indicate that the user has
read and write permissions.
The fifth through
seventh characters
show the group only
has read permissions.
And the eighth to tenth
characters show
that other only has
read permissions.
We need to adjust
these permissions.
We want to ensure analysts in
the security group
have write permission,
but takeaway read permissions
from the owner-type other,
so we add write permissions for
group and remove read
permissions for other.
Let's run ls -l again.
This shows a change in the
permissions for access.txt.
Notice how in the middle segment
of permissions for the group,
w has been added to
give write permissions.
And another change is that
the r has been removed
in the last segment,
indicating that read permissions
for other have been removed.
As mentioned earlier,
these hyphens
indicate a lack of permissions.
Now, other is lacking
all permissions.
Though it requires practice,
working in Linux becomes
more natural with time.
I'm glad you're
learning a little
more about how to use Linux.